add new slider ticks topic (#1692)
IgniteUI/igniteui-docfx: en/components/slider/slider_ticks.md

---
title: Slider Component
_description: Ignite UI for Angular Slider control provides a rich input for value selection and delivers consistent experience across browsers.
_keywords: Ignite UI for Angular, UI controls, Angular widgets, web widgets, UI widgets, Angular, Native Angular Components Suite, Native Angular Controls, Native Angular Components Library, Angular Slider components, Angular Slider controls
---

> ## Slider Ticks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Slider Tick Marks
```

> **Slider ticks**, provide a new and more appealing way for data visualization, like a particular timeframe, days of the week and more. With this new functionality, the users are not obliged to interact with the slider in order to see what data range is being represented. It is extremely flexible, with regards to the control over positioning and orientation of the **ticks** and **tick labels**. The **ticks** can be turned **on/off**, as well as can be toggled between **primary**, **secondary** or **both**. In addition, this feature provides a way to  turn **on/of** **primary**, **secondary** **tick labels** or both. Tick labels can change their rotation form **horizontal** to **vertical** (**top to bottom** (90) or **bottom to top** (-90)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Slider tick marks**, provide a new and more convenient way for data visualization, like a particular timeframe, days of the week and more. With this new functionality, the users are not obliged to interact with the Angular Slider in order to see what data range is being represented. It is extremely flexible, with regards to the control over positioning and orientation of the tick marks, labels and thumb track. The **ticks** can be turned **on/off**, as well as can be toggled between **primary**, **secondary** or **both**. In addition, this feature provides a way to  turn **on/of** **primary**, **secondary** **tick labels** or both. Tick labels can change their rotation form **horizontal** to **vertical** (**top to bottom** (90) or **bottom to top** (-90)).
```

---
title: Slider Component
_description: Ignite UI for Angular Slider control provides a rich input for value selection and delivers consistent experience across browsers.
_keywords: Ignite UI for Angular, UI controls, Angular widgets, web widgets, UI widgets, Angular, Native Angular Components Suite, Native Angular Controls, Native Angular Components Library, Angular Slider components, Angular Slider controls
---

## Slider Ticks

> **Slider ticks**, provide a new and more attractive way for data visualization. More specifically, we could use that feature to present a particular timeframe, days of the week and more. With this new functionality we are not obligated to interact with the slider in order to see what data stays behind. It is extremely flexible. The user has a full control over the positioning of the **ticks** and **tick labels**. We can turn on/off them, as well as pick between primary, secondary or both. Users also can turn on/of primary, secondary **tick labels** or both, even they can change their rotation form **horizontal** to **vertical** (**top to bottom** (90) or **bottom to top** (-90)).

Reviewer 2: 1. Users can also
2. they can even change

    <igx-icon fontSet="material">keyboard_arrow_left</igx-icon>
</button>
<div class="slider-container">
    <igx-slider
        [maxValue]="20"
        [showTicks]="true"
        [secondaryTicks]="21"
        [secondaryTickLabels]="false"
        [ticksOrientation]="ticksOrientation"></igx-slider>
</div>
<button igxButton="fab" igxRipple="white" (click)="increase()">
    <igx-icon fontSet="material">keyboard_arrow_right</igx-icon>
</button>

```
The two buttons you see could be used to control/update slider's **value**, but let's focus on the **ticks** manipulation. 

```typescript
  public ticksOrientation = TicksOrientation.Mirror;
```

<div class="sample-container loading" style="height: 140px">
    <iframe id="slider-secondary-ticks-mirror-iframe" data-src='{environment:demosBaseUrl}/interactions/slider-secondary-ticks-mirror' width="100%" height="100%" seamless="" frameBorder="0" class="lazyload"></iframe>
</div>
<div>
    <button data-localize="stackblitz" disabled class="stackblitz-btn" data-iframe-id="slider-secondary-ticks-mirror-iframe" data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}">view on stackblitz</button>
</div>

> In order to change the orientation, we have used [`ticksOrientation`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxslidercomponent.html#ticksorientation) input, which we changed from **Bottom**(default) to **Mirror**. This mirrors the visualization of the **ticks** and duplicates them at the top as well. 

Reviewer 2: Something simpler here ? Maybe "Ticks orientation is changed by setting the ticksOrientation input. We changed it from Bottom to Mirror to mirror the ticks and have them visualized on top as well."

#### Top ticks with visible labels

> There is an edge case where our **thumb label** is hidden intentionally, and it is when [`ticksOrientaion`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxslidercomponent.html#ticksorientation) is set to **Top** or **Mirror** and there are any visible **tick labels**. In this way, we prevent a bad user experience and overlap between the two labels. To gain a better view over that scenario let’s see the example below.

Reviewer 2: maybe you mean "there are NO visible tick labels" or "there arent any visible" ?

</div>
<div>
    <button data-localize="stackblitz" disabled class="stackblitz-btn" data-iframe-id="slider-timeframe-iframe" data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}">view on stackblitz</button>
</div>

Here we do not set [`primaryTicks`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxslidercomponent.html#primaryticks), because it won’t be reflected in any way, because the **length** of the collection takes control over it. This does not mean that we are not able to set any [`secondaryTicks`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxslidercomponent.html#secondaryticks). We are, but they will be just empty **ticks** which would serve as some sort of indicators between the **primary ticks**.

#### Template tick labels
Lastly we will see how we can provide a custom template for our **tick labels** and what our [`context`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxtickscomponent.html#context) provides.

```html
    <igx-slider
    [showTicks]="true"
    [primaryTicks]="3"
    [secondaryTicks]="3">
        <ng-template igxSliderTickLabel let-value let-primary="isPrimary" let-idx="index">
            {{ tickLabel(value, primary, idx) }}
        </ng-template>
    </igx-slider>
```

> Setting to the template [`IgxTickLabelTemplateDirective`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxticklabeltemplatedirective.html) says that this is the template we need to look for when we render our **tick labels**. 

Reviewer 2: I think "setting to the template" will make mroe sense, I am confused what ti means here. Maybe "Setting the template"
